[Music]
how do you imagine the world's most
powerful volcano eruption boiling hot
orange lava spilling over the slopes of
a mountain and destroying everything in
its path
ginormous clouds of ash blackening out
the skies and wiping out all life in
nearby towns toxic gases that sneak into
the smallest nuts I give up but what if
I tell you that you might not even
notice this devastating event few people
know that around 80% of all volcanic
eruptions happen underwater
what's more submarine volcanoes alone
spit out more than 75% of the world's
magma there are over 1 million
underwater volcanoes on our planet and
at least 75,000 of them rise above the
seabed by more than half a mile but as
you may guess it's very hard to explore
and examine these underwater monsters no
wonder scientists almost missed the
largest underwater volcano eruption of
our time a Kiwi passenger was flying
back home after having an amazing
vacation in Samoa when something strange
attracted her attention at that moment
the plane was several hundred miles away
from the coast of New Zealand and from
her window seat the travellers saw a
bizarre large mass floating on the ocean
surface she took a photo and after
returning home she sent this picture to
researchers it turned out that the mass
was a huge raft of pumice rocks some of
them as big as a car this moving carpet
which spread for a whopping 150 square
miles was the result of the greatest
submarine eruption in modern history
even more several months later
satellites spotted that the pumice rock
raft had already spread over an area the
size of two New Zealand's have receive
all kano which exploded on July 18th
2012 lies between American Samoa
and New Zealand in the southwest Pacific
Ocean three years after the eruption had
happened scientists packed into two
autonomous underwater submarines and
headed to explore the area at that
time they already knew that there'd been
a massive explosion comparable to the
largest land eruptions of the 20th
century in any case researchers expected
to discover some evidence of a common
deep-sea eruption but they were in for a
surprise to their endless amazement
scientists didn't find a typical
underwater volcano blast pattern but
what they discovered was so much more
unexpected the seafloor miles away from
the volcano
was littered with giant pumice rocks and
some of them were the size of a van
scientists later admitted that they'd
never seen anything like that before at
first those who were inside the
submarines even thought that something
was wrong with their imaging systems now
let me go a bit off topic like I never
do that
the thing is that underwater volcanoes
are usually gentle giants that don't
bother us too much when they erupt it
can easily go unnoticed
due to their distant location all the
fun happens deep underwater when the
time comes the pressure blast the whole
top of the volcano off and magma gets
thrown high up with an incredible force
the amount of red-hot magma is so huge
that it boils millions of gallons of
water in a matter of minutes as a result
the region around the erupting volcano
turns into a rolling cauldron of water
which then flows up to the surface if
you were somewhere around at that moment
you would see the ocean start to bubble
furiously and you'd smell the disgusting
stench of sulfur whoo the deadly cloud
of boiling water would destroy all the
plants and marine animals caught near
the eruption and later these remains
would rise to the surface to add to the
mystery of the bubbles and smell but it
turned out that the Habra volcano
eruption was an unusual one the cauldre
which is a large crater that appears
after massive eruptions spanned for
almost three miles and fourteen vents in
it spewed out huge amounts of lava but
the most interesting thing was that the
volcano produced not only pumice rocks
but also lava dome
Asch and even underwater lava flows
remember the 2010 a effecter yoko
eruption in Iceland which caused
unprecedented problems with air travel
that lasted six days wait wait wait hold
on say it with me now
AF yok are you cook well work on it at
your homework assignment anyway
the hover underwater eruption was 10
times more powerful than that scientists
were ecstatic about this finding they
stated that the samples they'd found
equaled a decade of thorough research
thanks to these materials researchers
have a unique opportunity to understand
better what happens when an underwater
volcano flares up but nowadays we have a
more burning issue on our hands it seems
that climate change may affect not only
weather in sea level but also trigger
disastrous volcanic eruptions all over
the planet both underwater and on land
the thing is that glaciers may be
suppressing volcanic activity by making
mountains more stable but these days as
the ice starts to melt mountains don't
have the support they had before for a
usual Mountain it might mean landslides
and probably even collapse but if we're
talking about a volcano the situation
turns much more dangerous you might
already know that volcanoes experience
constant pressure from the inside so
remove at least one outer protective
layer and by saying that I mean the snow
or ice cover and you have a huge powder
drum that could explode at any moment
but what if all the volcanoes on earth
lost their stability and went off
simultaneously that would be an
apocalyptic scenario you kind of knew I
was going there didn't you you can
probably imagine the panic every single
person on the planet would feel should
all the volcanoes erupt at once some
volcanoes would only use liquid lava all
over their own slopes and the nearby
settlements luckily in this case the
inhabitants would have enough time to
evacuate and get away from dangerous
zones as for conical stratovolcanoes
like Mount Fuji in Japan for example
they would cause much more trouble
such volcanoes would produce so much ash
they
would darken the sky for weeks and
months it would trigger a long and
freezing volcanic winter without
sunlight plants and crops would die
unable to get energy from photosynthesis
animals as well as people would suffer
from food shortages an even more
dangerous problem would be the ash
itself whence inhaled volcanic ash turns
into glass like substance inside
people's lungs and you can probably
guess the tragic outcome people hiding
inside buildings would be in grave
danger because under the combined weight
of ash construction would start to
collapse since ash is 5 times denser
than water most buildings are simply not
designed to withstand tons of it on
their roofs
besides when stratovolcanoes begin to
erupt
they'd send huge lava explosions into
the air and lava would also flow down
the slopes at unprecedented speeds in
this case you wouldn't be able to escape
by hopping on a plane because the
aircraft's engines would stop as soon as
the ash remelted in two drops of lava
inside them but even those wouldn't be
the worst consequences of all the
volcanoes erupting at once no no let's
just pile on here by the end of the
eruptions the world would be encompassed
by a volcanic winter and the very
concept of seasons would become outdated
huge unstable carbon reserves and the
oceans would become liquid and would be
turned into methane and carbon dioxide
by microbes these two greenhouse gases
would get into the atmosphere and
dramatically accelerate global warming
it would create a never-ending vicious
circle a warmer climate would cause more
gases to enter the atmosphere which
would in turn warm the climate even more
eventually the climate would get so
incredibly hot that all the trees and
plants would die out all the oceans
would boil away and earth would turn
into a Venus like place a planet with no
liquid water and the atmosphere filled
with deadly carbon dioxide
are you thoroughly depressed yet well
enough of this gloom and ooh we're on
the bright side after all and you can
relax now luckily this scenario is
highly unlikely to ever occur and we can
just sort of theorize about the what-ifs
so how about you have you ever seen a
volcano active or sleeping can you say
AF Janka you cook do you know how hard I
practice to say that right let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go off to you know that
volcano just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life